MIT SafePaths Card (MiSaCa): Augmenting Paper Based Vaccination Cards with Printed Codes
MIT SAFEPATHS CARD (MISACA):
AUGMENTING
PAPER BASED VACCINATION CARDS WITH PRINTED
CODES
Joseph Bae1, 3, Rohan Sukumaran1, Sheshank Shankar1, Saurish Srivastava1, Rohan Iyer1,
Aryan Mahindra1, Qamil Mirza1, Maurizio Arseni1, Anshuman Sharma1, Saras Agrawal1,
Orna Mukhopadhyay1, Colin Kang1, Priyanshi Katiyar1, Apurv Shekhar1, Sifat Hasan1,
Krishnendu Dasgupta1, Darshan Gandhi1, Sethuraman TV1, Parth Patwa1, Ishaan Singh1,
Abhishek Singh2, Ramesh Raskar1,2
1PathCheck Foundation, 02139 Cambridge, USA.
2MIT Media Lab, 02139 Cambridge, USA.
3Renaissance School of Medicine, Stony Brook University, 11794 Stony Brook, USA.
raskar@media.mit.edu
ABSTRACT
In this early draft, we describe a user-centric, card-based system for vaccine dis-
tribution. Our system makes use of digitally signed QR codes and their use for
phased vaccine distribution, vaccine administration/record-keeping, immuniza-
tion veriﬁcation, and follow-up symptom reporting. Furthermore, we propose and
describe a complementary scanner app system to be used by vaccination clinics,
public health ofﬁcials, and immunization veriﬁcation parties to effectively utilize
card-based framework. We believe that the proposed system provides a privacy-
preserving and efﬁcient framework for vaccine distribution in both developed and
developing regions.
1
INTRODUCTION
Without an effective curative or preventative measure, the unprecedented coronavirus disease 2019
(COVID-19) pandemic has led to a signiﬁcant amount of human deaths (1,900,000 at the time of
publication (for Disease Control & Prevention (2020c))). However, now with the advent of vaccines,
we face the challenges of strategic, equitable and privacy preserved ways for last-mile vaccine dis-
tribution (Bae et al. (2020); MPH (2020)).
First, the vaccine recipients must be dynamically prioritized to ensure an equitable reach, especially
as multiple vaccines with different protocols are approved in various areas. In addition, once a
citizen’s ﬁrst dose is administered, they must follow through with their second dose as well. Also,
a communication plan must also be put in place to combat inevitable rumours, misinformation, and
conspiracy theories aiming to disrupt citizen engagement in the vaccination process ( Morales et al.
(2021); Omer (2021)). It must also address the mistrust of vaccines in society (Palamenghi et al.
(2020)), especially within previously marginalized minority populations (Toner et al. (2020)). This
is why we must take a user-centric approach that preserves trust — vaccines are meaningless if
citizens aren’t willing to take them (M et al. (2020)). Lastly, the health outcomes (effectiveness,
safety, long-term effects, etc) of the vaccines must be effectively monitored in a privacy-preserving
way (Borenstein & Weintraub (2020)).
In today’s society, multiple technological systems are being utilized by the Center for Disease Con-
trol (CDC) to combat these challenges ( for Disease Control & Prevention (2020a); Smith & Mennis
(2020); for Disease Control & Prevention (2020b)). For example, the Vaccine Administration Man-
agement System (VAMS) streamlines the vaccine distribution process for jurisdictions, employers,
and healthcare providers. In addition, it’s an effective user-centric system as it allows for vaccine
recipients to schedule appointments, receive records of their visit, and receive reminders for a sec-
1
arXiv:2101.07931v2  [cs.CY]  21 Jan 2021

MIT SafePaths Card (MiSaCa): Augmenting Paper Based Vaccination Cards with Printed Codes
ond dose (for Disease Control (CDC)). The Immunization Information Systems (IIS) are a group
of privacy preserving database systems that track all vaccinations within various areas (for Disease
Control (CDC)). Lastly, the Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System (VAERS) is the prominent
system for the monitoring of health outcomes ( for Disease Control (CDC); ADMINISTRATION
(2019)).
In our previous work, we detail the MIT SafePaths app-based protocol for vaccine distribution. In
this paper, we introduce a separate user-centric card protocol that uses printed codes as a supplement
to traditional paper based vaccination cards.
2
CARD FLOW
2.1
OVERVIEW
Here we present a vaccine distribution system utilizing physical SafePaths cards and four digitally
signed QR code stickers (henceforth termed Coupon, Badge, Passkey, and Status). The digital sign-
ing of a QR code is simply a secure process of verifying the authenticity of the information contained
in the QR code (Singh et al. (2020)). These QR code stickers are simply QR codes printed onto ad-
hesive stickers that can then be attached to a user’s physical card.
Side 1
Side 2
Coupon 
Badge 
Status
Pass Key 
Pass Key
 Conatins encrypted personal information such 
as name, age, sex, etc.
 
 
Coupon 
Issued by central government agency. 
Distributed by employer or local government 
institutions. Contains information to identify 
users. 
Badge 
 Issued by vaccination clinic. Contains vaccine 
related information such as lot, manufacturer, 
first/second dose, time, date and location of 
vaccination.
Status
Contains unencrypted vaccination status
 
4
Figure 1: The 4 digitally signed QR code stickers (Coupon, Badge, Status, and Passkey) present on
the SafePaths cards.
The digital signature of the QR codes take place as below Certiﬁcate = (message, signa-
ture(messages))
For each sticker below the message is as follows -
• Coupon = (number, total, city, phase, (age, job, comorbidities/sick))
• Badge = (coupon, dose info, Hash(passkey())
• Status = ((vaccinated = 0,1,2), Hash(passkey())
• Passkey = (name, DOB, salt)
= hash:sj2d8k8hy7j
Our solution is intended to decouple the health information and personally identiﬁable information
(PII) in this process. Thereby, we are essentially proposing to separate the eligibility of the vaccina-
tion from the distribution of it. This way we can have the health information centralised, whilst the
PII information decentralised.
2.2
VACCINE ELIGIBILITY CONFIRMATION
To accommodate the several-stage vaccination policies that countries have begun to employ,
SafePaths cards will be distributed containing one digitally-signed Coupon QR code. This would
2

MIT SafePaths Card (MiSaCa): Augmenting Paper Based Vaccination Cards with Printed Codes
Figure 2: MIT SafePaths Card Mockup
Name
Equation
Description
Example
Coupon
{m, sign(m)}
where m = (i, zip code,
job type)
Coupon code is signed
by CDC and indicates the
zip code and job type of the
receiver
{37, 5000, Springﬁeld, 1B,
Teacher}
Badge
{m, sign(m)}
where m = (dose info,
coupon, hash(passkey))
Badge is available after 2
doses and it gives the
information pertinent to
the vaccine shot.
{[Pﬁzer, “1st Dose”,
1/1/2021], fe4c2,
3be33c20cc4c85a0c32f7bf5b4}
Status
{m, sign(m)}
where m = (status,
hash(passkey))
Contains bare minimum
information to prove the
user is vaccinated
{vaccinated,
3be33c20cc4c85a0c32f7bf5b4}
Passkey
ID = User PII
Key = salt
Key is the random salt
used for increasing the
entropy of hashed data
{John Doe,
6363fe744f74ee8f280958}
Table 1: This outlines the four QR codes and what information is digitally signed in it.
be provided by a central government agency such as the CDC and made available to users either by
an employer or local government location. A pseudo random identiﬁer generated for this Coupon
serves as the identifying information for the user throughout the remaining workﬂow. This Coupon
would initially come with SafePaths cards while the remaining three adhesive stickers must be ob-
tained and placed onto the card following vaccination events.
2.3
VACCINE ADMINISTRATION
Check-in at a vaccination clinic would require the veriﬁcation of a user’s Coupon.
Upon vaccination, the vaccination clinic would create a digitally-signed record of immunization
and print it as a QR code on an adhesive sticker. This adhesive sticker (henceforth referred to as
the Badge) would contain information regarding vaccine lot, manufacturer, and ﬁrst/second dose
information. The Badge would also contain information regarding the time, date, and location of
vaccination.
3

MIT SafePaths Card (MiSaCa): Augmenting Paper Based Vaccination Cards with Printed Codes
The vaccination clinic would also create a unique encryption key to encrypt the Badge. This key, as
well as encrypted PII such as name, age, sex, etc. would be stored on a Passkey QR code, printed
onto a Passkey QR sticker. This Passkey is required for decryption of PII and in-depth vaccination
information (time, date, location of vaccination).
At this stage, a vaccine recipient would then have Coupon, Badge, and Passkey QR stickers.
2.4
SECOND DOSE
When a user attempts to receive a second dose of a vaccine, the vaccination clinic would utilize
a user’s Badge to determine the appropriate vaccine type and dose and the Passkey to conﬁrm a
user’s identity. Again, the user Passkey contains information that solely exists on the physical card
carried by a user. Use of this sticker is required to decrypt in depth vaccination information for a
patient contained in the Badge (location of vaccination, date, etc.). Once ﬁnal vaccination has been
performed, the vaccine clinic would create a fourth and ﬁnal Status QR code sticker for a recipient’s
SafePaths card, which would simply indicate whether or not a user has been vaccinated. Status
would not contain any further information and therefore would be unencrypted.
2.5
RECORD-KEEPING
User vaccination records could be linked by anonymized upload to a centralized system using a
user’s pseudorandom identiﬁer. The user’s Passkey, containing their encryption key that decrypts
their PII, would not be uploaded to the CDC without consent. Alternatively, we propose an anony-
mous record keeping function in our Scanner App section.
2.6
VACCINATION VERIFICATION
Veriﬁcation of immunization status might be required in various scenarios such as airline travel,
return to school/work, etc. Vaccine veriﬁcation at these venues would follow the receipt of a second
COVID-19 dose.
Information regarding an individual’s vaccination status would be digitally signed by the vaccine
clinic onto the Status sticker. When scanned, this sticker would provide the veriﬁer with informa-
tion regarding whether or not an individual has been vaccinated. If further veriﬁcation of identity
is required, the veriﬁer could make use of a consenting individual’s Passkey sticker to decrypt the
holder’s name. With this method, a user would have multiple levels of information they can share,
beginning with vaccination status in the unencrypted Status sticker, basic personal information (i.e.
name) that must be decrypted using the Passkey sticker, and ﬁnally full personal vaccination infor-
mation encrypted in the Badge.
2.7
SAFETY AND EFFICACY MONITORING
Short and long-term monitoring of health outcomes would rely on self-reporting. These cards could
still facilitate the anonymous information upload by interacting with existing centralized systems
such as VAERS or V-Safe while bypassing PII input. All health and symptom information could
instead be tied to a user’s pseudorandom ID. We also propose a scanner app solution in the Scanner
Flow section that could aggregate symptom reporting and vaccine record data anonymously.
3
SCANNER FLOW
3.1
OVERVIEW
Here we discuss the systems that must be built for vaccine clinics and distributors in order to enable
the use of the SafePaths card framework presented above. We present several relevant protocols as
well as the functionality of a proposed vaccine distributor/veriﬁer scanner app. This scanner app
would be necessary to function with the encrypted QR codes described above.
4

MIT SafePaths Card (MiSaCa): Augmenting Paper Based Vaccination Cards with Printed Codes
PathCheck Foundation
Card Protocol Flow
The SafePaths card are distributed by the local 
government or employers. These cards contain 
one initial digitally-signed coupon QR code 
which would serve as proof of vaccination 
eligibility for an individual
Vaccine Eligibility Confirmation
1
Vaccine Administration
Post-vaccination, the clinic creates a 
digitally-signed immunization certificate and 
prints it as a badge QR sticker which contains 
vaccine information. Another Passkey QR 
sticker is also created and printed by the clinic 
to encrypt the badge sticker
2
Record Keeping & 2nd Dose
User records could be linked by anonymized 
upload to centralized systems such as VAMS. 
Once user receives their second vaccination 
dose, the clinic will create a fourth status QR 
sticker which will only contain information on 
vaccination status for future verification 
3
Vaccine Verification
The status QR sticker would be scanned at 
venues such as airports or other public spaces 
to confirm an individual’s vaccination status. 
Users could choose to allow a venue to scan 
the badge QR sticker using the Passkey QR 
sticker to provide personal information for 
identity verification
4
Safety & Efficacy Monitoring
Monitoring of health outcomes 
post-vaccination would follow a self-reporting 
scheme. This could be done by anonymized 
uploads to current government systems. 
PathCheck’s scanner app could also be used to 
anonymously upload vaccine data and 
symptom reporting data to health officials and 
vaccine makers
5
Trust & Communication
Digitally-signed QR codes may be convenient 
and non-intrusive for users seeking vaccination. 
QR codes also enable verification of 
authentically created immunization records. 
Information is stored physically on a user’s 
SafePaths card in a decentralized manner. The 
card enables the extension of protocols to 
low-resource areas to equalize disparities.
6
Figure 3: Card protocol workﬂow diagram.
3.2
VACCINE ELIGIBILITY CONFIRMATION
Phased vaccination using the SafePaths card system requires the distribution of SafePaths cards
containing digitally signed Coupons to appropriate subsets of the population during each stage of
vaccination. There are several ways that this might be achieved. We propose potential solutions
below, though we recognize that these strategies must be determined by individual jurisdictions to
meet the circumstances in different locations.
1. Disseminate to businesses to provide to employees (eg: hospitals, restaurants, etc. as ap-
propriate)
2. Make available at local government building (similar to DMV process of obtaining a
driver’s license)
3. Mail out to individuals based on employment/other factors (via background check systems,
centralized databases such as IRS)
3.3
VACCINE ADMINISTRATION
To conﬁrm an individual for vaccination scheduling/check-in, a clinic must verify the authenticity
of a vaccine recipient’s QR Coupons. The ﬁrst function of our proposed scanner app would be to
scan a vaccine recipient’s Coupon to determine authenticity and prevent the use of a single Coupon
by multiple individuals. This would be achieved by scanning the digital signature present on a
SafePaths Coupon and verifying its digital signature.
The second function of our proposed scanner app would be to create digitally signed Badge and
Passkey stickers for post vaccination. This would make use of our previously described algorithm
(Singh et al. (2020)) for secure recording of vaccine information into a Badge sticker, encrypted
using the encryption key present in the Passkey. After creating these stickers, the proposed scanner
app would not store any information regarding a recipient’s encryption key; that information would
only exist within the Passkey sticker.
5

MIT SafePaths Card (MiSaCa): Augmenting Paper Based Vaccination Cards with Printed Codes
PathCheck Foundation
Vaccine Scanner
App Flow
Vaccinators will be required to login to confirm 
their names and affiliation, while selecting a 
vaccination location.

Login and password
Confirms: Name, Affiliation
Select: Vaccination Location
Authentication
1
Eligibility ‘Coupon’ Scan
1: Scan ‘Coupon’ QR code
2: Decode: Town, State, Phase, Job, Comorbidity
3: Activation or not
4: Confirm - Coupon has been activated by XYZ 
location on this date
5: Vaccination status - Coupon user status is 
[Vaccinated at Pharmacy on date]
2A
Local Operations
The app would show a list of people that have 
checked in today. If real time internet access is 
not availble daylong, data can be uploaded to a 
central server, with an option to delete data 
from the app.
3
Health Reporting Scans
Scans can be performed by doctors or frontline 
healthcare workers to monitor symptoms and 
send anonymized data to governments.

Scan ‘Badge’ QR code and passkey
Select from a set of side effects symptoms 
‘Upload’ to CDC
2D
Verification Scans
Verification scans can be performed by 
different venues to determine whether an 
individual has been vaccinated.

Scan ‘Status’ QR code and user passkey: if all 
matches, screen will turn green
In-person verification will prompt “Ask for 
government ID”
2C
‘Badge’ Scans
First-dose
Daily-updated dose-info: vaccine company and lot, 
vaccine location, date
Eligibility ‘Coupon’ Scan (2A) and get user passkey
Create Badge: coupon + dose-info + passkey 
Deliver Badge, status, passkey via SMS, print, email, 
or onscreen photo of QR code
Second-dose
Scan old Badge and get old dosage-info
Use same process to create second-dose badge
2B
Figure 4: Scanner app protocol workﬂow diagram.
3.4
SECOND DOSE
Second dose administration functionality would be implemented into the scanner app in the same
manner as described in the previous section for ‘Vaccine Administration’. A Status sticker would
be created by the scanner app in a similar manner to the Badge sticker, also drawing on the methods
described in our cryptographic protocol (Singh et al. (2020)).
3.5
RECORD-KEEPING
Another critical function of our scanner app would be the ability to integrate with existing systems,
such as VAMS in the United States. Ideally, our app would be able to automatically provide vacci-
nation record information to VAMS while replacing PII with pseudo identiﬁers.
Alternatively, our scanner system would also have the capability to directly aggregate vaccination
record data in an anonymized fashion, retaining population-level statistics such as vaccination preva-
lence in a given jurisdiction that might be important for public health policy development. Details
concerning clinic location, vaccine dose, and vaccine manufacturer could be stored by the scanner
app and aggregated for public health ofﬁcial viewing.
3.6
VACCINATION VERIFICATION
Our proposed scanner app would enable vaccination veriﬁcation simply by reading immunization
status contained in a user’s Status sticker. For further identity veriﬁcation, a form of ID (such as
driver’s license) can be compared with the decrypted PII from the scanner app using an individual’s
Passkey sticker. The scanner app would not store this information following completion of the
immunization conﬁrmation.
6

MIT SafePaths Card (MiSaCa): Augmenting Paper Based Vaccination Cards with Printed Codes
4
CONCLUSION
In this early draft, we present a complete protocol for a physical card-based system for phased
vaccine distribution, individual vaccination, second-dose adherence, and symptom follow-up. Due
to their physical nature and simplicity, digitally-signed QR codes may be a convenient and non-
intrusive modality for some users seeking vaccination. Digitally-signed QR stickers enable veriﬁ-
cation of authentically created immunization records, and the encryption schema presented using
a unique passkey sticker ensures that user PII can only be decrypted with the user’s consent. This
information is stored physically on the user’s SafePaths card in a decentralized manner wherein
a user must provide their physical passkey sticker for decryption of PII. These cards also extend
privacy-focused protocols to low-resource areas and populations, equalizing disparities in access to
individual-centric solutions and frameworks for COVID-19 vaccination. The centralised health data
collected (which is rid of all PIIs) can be used by the concerned authorities to have population aggre-
gated view of the vaccine adherence in a region. Furthermore, such privacy preserving dashboards
which show aggregated data can help the authorities take informed decisions.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
We are grateful to Riyanka Roy Choudhury, CodeX Fellow, Stanford University, Adam Berrey, CEO
of PathCheck Foundation, Dr. Brooke Struck, Research Director at The Decision Lab, Canada,
Vinay Gidwaney, Entrepreneur and Advisor, PathCheck Foundation, and Paola Heudebert, co-
founder of Blockchain for Human Rights, Alison Tinker, Saswati Soumya, Sunny Manduva, Bhavya
Pandey, and Aarathi Prasad for their assistance in discussions, support and guidance in writing of
this paper.
REFERENCES
U.S. FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION.
Vaers overview,
2019.
URL https:
//www.fda.gov/vaccines-blood-biologics/vaccine-adverse-events/
vaers-overview.
Joseph Bae, Darshan Gandhi, Jil Kothari, Sheshank Shankar, Jonah Bae, Parth Patwa, Rohan
Sukumaran, Sethuraman T. V., Krutika Mishra, Srinidhi Murali, Aishwariya Saxena, Kasia Jaki-
mowicz, Vivek Sharma, Rohan Iyer, Ashley Mehra, Alex Radunsky, Priyanshi Katiyar, Sunaina
Anand, Shailesh Advani, Jagjit Dhaliwal, and Ramesh Raskar. Challenges of equitable vaccine
distribution in the covid-19 pandemic, 2020.
Joram
Borenstein
and
Rebecca
Weintraub.
Rolling
out
the
covid
vaccine
is
a
huge
it
challenge,
2020.
URL
https://hbr.org/2020/12/
rolling-out-the-covid-vaccine-is-a-huge-it-challenge.
Center for Disease Control and Prevention.
Using telehealth to expand access to essential
health services during the covid-19 pandemic, 2020a.
URL https://www.cdc.gov/
coronavirus/2019-ncov/hcp/telehealth.html.
Center for Disease Control and Prevention. Using digital technologies in precision public health:
Covid-19 and beyond, 2020b. URL https://blogs.cdc.gov/genomics/2020/04/
06/using-digital/.
Center for Disease Control and Prevention. Cdc covid data tracker, 2020c.
Center for Disease Control (CDC). About Immunization Information Systems (IIS), 2020a. https:
//www.cdc.gov/vaccines/programs/iis/about.html.
Center for Disease Control (CDC). VAERS — Vaccine Safety — CDC, 2020b. https://www.
cdc.gov/vaccinesafety/ensuringsafety/monitoring/vaers/index.html.
Center for Disease Control (CDC). VAMS — COVID-19 Vaccination Reporting Systems — CDC,
2020c. https://www.cdc.gov/vaccines/covid-19/reporting/vams/index.
html.
7

MIT SafePaths Card (MiSaCa): Augmenting Paper Based Vaccination Cards with Printed Codes
Schoch-Spana M, Brunson EK, Long R, Ruth A, Ravi SJ, Trotochaud M, Borio L, Brewer J, Buccina
J, Connell N, Hall LL, Kass N, Kirkland A, Koonin L, Larson H, Lu BF, Omer SB, Orenstein WA,
Poland GA, Privor-Dumm L, Quinn SC, Salmon D, and White A. The public’s role in covid-19
vaccination: Human-centered recommendations to enhance pandemic vaccine awareness, access,
and acceptance in the united states. vaccine., Oct 2020. URL https://www.ncbi.nlm.
nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC7598529/#b0160.
Manuel Morales, Rachel Barbar, Darshan Gandhi, Sanskruti Landuge, Joseph Bae, Arpita Vats, Jil
Kothari, Sheshank Shankar, Rohan Sukumaran, Himi Mathur, Krutika Misra, Aishwarya Saxena,
Parth Patwa, Sethuraman T. V., Maurizio Arseni, Shailesh Advani, Kasia Jakimowicz, Sunaina
Anand, Priyanshi Katiyar, Ashley Mehra, Rohan Iyer, Srinidhi Murali, Aryan Mahindra, Mikhail
Dmitrienko, Saurish Srivastava, Ananya Gangavarapu, Steve Penrod, Vivek Sharma, Abhishek
Singh, and Ramesh Raskar. Covid-19 tests gone rogue: Privacy, efﬁcacy,mismanagement and
misunderstandings, 2021.
Kathleen Dooling MD MPH. Phased allocation of covid-19 vaccines, 2020.
Saad B. Omer. Rapid development of a vaccine won’t help much if people refuse to take it, 2021.
Lorenzo Palamenghi, Serena Barello, Stefania Boccia, and Guendalina Grafﬁgna.
Mistrust in
biomedical research and vaccine hesitancy: the forefront challenge in the battle against covid-19
in italy. European journal of epidemiology, 35(8):785–788, Aug 2020. ISSN 1573-7284. doi: 10.
1007/s10654-020-00675-8.
URL https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32808095.
32808095[pmid].
Abhishek Singh, Ramesh Raskar, and Anna Lysyanskaya. Safepaths: Vaccine diary protocol and
decentralized vaccine coordination system using a privacy preserving user centric experience,
2020.
Charlotte D. Smith and Jeremy Mennis. Incorporating geographic information science and technol-
ogy in response to the covid-19 pandemic, Jul 2020. URL https://www.cdc.gov/PCD/
issues/2020/20_0246.htm.
Eric Toner, Anne Barnill, Carleigh Krubiner, Justin Bernstein, Lois Privor-Dumm, Mathew
Watson, Elena Martin, Christina Potter, Divya Hosangadi, Nancy Connell, Crystal Wat-
son,
Monica Schoch-Spana,
Tener Goodwin Veenema,
Diane Meyer,
E. Lee Daugh-
erty Biddison, Alan Regenberg, Tom Inglesby, and Anita Cicero.
Interim framework
for covid-19 vaccine allocation and distribution in the united states, Aug 2020.
URL
https://www.centerforhealthsecurity.org/our-work/publications/
interim-framework-for-covid-19-vaccine-allocation-and-distribut\
ion-in-the-us.
8

