

Citation: Smeaton, Alan F.; Hu, F.
Periodicity Intensity Reveals Insights
into Time Series Data: Three Use
Cases. Preprints 2023, 1, 0.
https://doi.org/
Publisher’s Note: MDPI stays neutral
with regard to jurisdictional claims in
published maps and institutional afﬁl-
iations.
Copyright:
© 2023 by the authors.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
This article is an open access article
distributed
under
the
terms
and
conditions of the Creative Commons
Attribution (CC BY) license (https://
creativecommons.org/licenses/by/
4.0/).
Article
Periodicity Intensity Reveals Insights into Time Series Data:
Three Use Cases
Alan F. Smeaton 1,∗
and Feiyan Hu 1
1
Insight Centre for Data Analytics, Dublin City University, Glasnevin, Dublin 9, Ireland; alan.smeaton@dcu.ie
*
Correspondence: alan.smeaton@dcu.ie
Abstract: Periodic phenomena are oscillating signals found in many naturally-occurring time series. A
periodogram can be used to measure the intensities of oscillations at different frequencies over an entire
time series but sometimes we are interested in measuring how periodicity intensity at a speciﬁc frequency
varies throughout the time series. This can be done by calculating periodicity intensity within a window
then sliding and recalculating the intensity for the window, giving an indication of how periodicity
intensity at a speciﬁc frequency changes throughout the series. We illustrate three applications of this
the ﬁrst of which is movements of a herd of new-born calves where we show how intensity of the 24h
periodicity increases and decreases synchronously across the herd. We also show how changes in 24h
periodicity intensity of activities detected from in-home sensors can be indicative of overall wellness. We
illustrate this on several weeks of sensor data gathered from each of the homes of 23 older adults. Our
third application is the intensity of 7-day periodicity of hundreds of University students accessing online
resources from a virtual learning environment (VLE) and how the regularity of their weekly learning
behaviours changes throughout a teaching semester. The paper demonstrates how periodicity intensity
reveals insights into time series data not visible using other forms of analysis.
Keywords: Periodicity intensity; periodogram; circadian rhythm;
1. Introduction
A common application of data analytics to data streams or time series is detecting anoma-
lous behaviour or outliers which deviate in some way from normal behaviour, where normal
behaviour is deﬁned by the recurring patterns within the data stream. As noted by Li et al. in
[1] this is useful for applications like fraud detection, network intrusion detection, medical
diagnosis, video surveillance, fault diagnosis and more. By deﬁnition, outlier detection detects
baseline patterns within data and then detects and alert us to outliers or to subtle variations
outside those baseline patterns.
Periodicity is deﬁned as the characteristic or tendency for some pattern to recur at regular
intervals within a data stream. The term is used to describe the regularity of phenomena which
reoccur throughout nature as normal behaviour and from which deviations are characterised as
outliers. Such temporal recurrence is an important property associated with complex systems
and the study of such temporal recurrence is useful for gaining insights into the behaviour of
the systems [2].
There is regular periodicity in the rotation of the earth, the lunar cycle, the earth’s revolving
around the sun, the seasons, the tides, and the rhythm of our daily 24-hour cycle. Humans, and
most other living creatures, have a strong circadian rhythm, the 24-hour cycle which brings
routine and structure to our lives. Chronobiology is the ﬁeld within life sciences that explores
how this 24-hour cycle inﬂuences the health, wellness and the behaviour of living organisms
[3]. 24-hour periodicities are observed in many human behaviours as we strive for homeostasis
— equilibrium in our physiology and stability in the face of external and environmental changes
[4]. It is known that when we live our lives and behave in ways that map strongly to the
arXiv:2302.09293v1  [cs.CY]  15 Feb 2023

2 of 15
periodicity of the circadian clock, then that is a sign of better health and improved overall
wellness [5].
One approach to detecting recurrences in data streams is visualising them via recurrence
plots (RPs) [6]. These are visualisations of a matrix in which elements of the matrix correspond
to instances at which there is a recurrence in a dynamic system. RPs operate by ﬁrst performing
a cluster analysis on the data and then building graphical patterns to illustrate recurrences in
the data. RPs have been used in many applications for example fault diagnosis of machinery
[7] and in image transformations [8].
Recurrence plots are useful for providing analysis of short sequences with a limited
amount of recurrence, but for longer time series with many iterations of recurrences they are
designed to hide the volume of iterations and to mask variations that may occur among the
iterations. Sometimes when we look for and ﬁnd patterns in time series data we want to
measure those patterns and to compare the patterns over time or even to compare them to
other recurring patterns. This goes far beyond just using the patterns to detect outliers. If we
could measure the patterns and how strong is their recurrence at different points throughout a
dataset then this might reveal insights into the patterns and deeper insights into the data.
In previous work we developed a technique for calculating and visualising the strength of
periodicity at a given frequency, throughout a time series. The technique was applied to the
sleeping patterns of US war veterans who continuously wore wrist-worn accelerometers for 90
consecutive days each and we found that the 24h periodicity strength varied signiﬁcantly across
participants [9]. That work also found that high levels of periodicity indicating regular sleep
and movement patterns were associated with lower measures of LDL-cholesterol, triglycerides
and hs-CRP as well as improved health-related quality of life measures [9]. The same technique
for visualising periodicity strength over time was used in an analysis of lifelog data deﬁned as
the automatic digital recording of everyday activities, and it provided insights into shifts in
underlying behaviour of the subjects [10].
While Chegini et al. [11] used the same term “periodicity intensity” in their work on the
diagnosis of faults in machine bearings, their work deﬁnes periodicity intensity as the ratio of
the energy of the local maxima to the total energy in the autocorrelation of vibration signals in
faulty machinery and that is very different to the deﬁnition of periodicity used here.
Our research hypothesis is that computing a visualisation of the strength of 24-hour
periodicity for a range of longitudinal time series data will reveal insights into the data not
visible using other forms of analysis. In this paper we apply the calculation of periodicity
strength to three different use cases and show how, in each case, deeper insights into the data
that are revealed by the analysis. The paper’s importance lies in the relative simplicity of
the technique and of the computation, and the powerful insights into time series data that it
provides. The technique can be used on any data series where underlying temporal patterns
reoccur and where the strength of those patterns throughout the data is important to determine.
2. Materials and Methods
2.1. Calculating Periodicity Intensity Using Time-lagged Overlapping Windows
A periodogram [12] is a well established technique for exploring the magnitudes of
recurring patterns at different frequencies in a time series of data. A periodogram uses samples
of a time series of data to measure the amplitude vs. the frequency characteristics of an
underlying continuous function and thus it reveals the spectral power density of the underlying
function. If the function is sampled unevenly or there is missing data from the sample, then the
Lomb–Scargle periodogram is a well-known algorithm which can cope with such unevenly
sampled data [13].
The Lomb–Scargle periodogram has been used widely within those domains where
there is an interest in exploring both the frequencies and magnitudes of periodicity, such as

3 of 15
data from astronomical observations. In the work here we are interested in the magnitude
or amplitude of the data samples only at a known frequency such as the 24-hour circadian
rhythm. Software implementations of the Lomb-Scargle periodogram are readily available
across multiple platforms including MatLab and in Python.
To illustrate how we calculate the magnitude of the periodicity changes at a given fre-
quency throughout a time series using time-lagged overlapping windows, we will describe
this using the schematic presented in Figure 1.
Figure 1. Schematic demonstrating the calculation of periodicity intensity throughout a time series using
time-lagged overlapping windows.
Figure 1(a) shows a plot of the ﬁrst 10 days of a longer (synthetic) series of data points and
we can see from the visualisation that there is a noticeable recurring daily pattern, i.e. when
the frequency is 24 hours, although if we examine it carefully we see that each day is slightly
different from the others. If we compute the magnitude of this 24-hour periodicity over the
whole time series it has a value of, let us say, 0.78 on a scale of 0 to 1.
While such an analysis has beneﬁt, if we have a long period of data (e.g. weeks, months
or years, then calculating a single number (0.78 in the diagram) for the 24-hour periodicity
over the whole duration will hide any variational details within the data. Instead, we calculate
the 24-hour periodicity from a window of the ﬁrst 7 days only as shown in Figure 1(b) and
this generates a value of, say, 0.82. We then shift the 7-day window forward in time by an
interval of, say, 1 whole day and re-calculate the 24-hour periodicity as shown in Figure 1(c)

4 of 15
and this generates a value of, say, 0.76. We repeat this process of shifting the 7-day window
and recalculating until we reach the end of the time series.
Three important parameters in this process are (1) the frequency of the recurring pattern
Fo, often 24 hours if we are interested in circadian rhythms but not always so, (2) the size of
the window in which the periodicity is calculated m and (3) the overlap between the windows
l also referred to as stride length, namely the amount by which a window is shifted before
calculating a new value for a periodicity window.
For a series of N data points such as that shown in Figure 1(d) and a window size of m
with a shifting or stride length of l for each periodicity re-calculation, this generates a time
series of ⌊N−m+1
l
⌋data points as in Figure 1(e). This captures gradual behaviour changes in
the regularity of the data sampled over time rather than instances of particularly abnormal
data values. Periodicity intensity graphs are just one of many possible forms of analysis of time
series data but differs from each of the others. While we do perform a spectral analysis [14] of
the data, this is not carried out across a full spectrum. Instead we focus on 24-hour circadian
periods because previous studies indicate that circadian periodicity carries most of the energy
in the longitudinal accelerometer data [15]. Likewise we do not map the time series data
into another space like an embedded space, as has been done in [16] with protein sequences.
Discrete wavelet transforms [17] can be used with time series data for noise ﬁltering and data
reduction, and speciﬁcally for detecting singularities like outliers [18] but this is different to our
use case where we are looking to identify for long term behaviour changes. Hilbert transforms
(empirical mode decomposition) [19] are often used with time series for gathering information
about frequency characteristics like amplitude and phase but not long-term shifts in time series
characteristics. The zero crossing rate (ZCR) [20] is used extensively in speech and music audio
processing and corresponds to the rate at which a signal transitions from positive to negative
or negative to positive while historical volatility [21] is a statistical measure from economics
and ﬁnance measuring the degree of variation of adjacent values in a time series. Each of
these latter forms of analysis measure the dynamic changes in a time series but do not give the
longitudinal changes in 24-hour periodicity intensity which our measure does.
These signal processing techniques are used in a wide variety of applications such as
data augmentation to support deep learning [22] and in [23] where time, frequency and
spectral power domain feature vectors derived from vibration and acoustic emissions from
bearings in machinery in order to detect faults. Empirical Mode Decomposition (EMD) is a
technique used to decompose a signal into useful components similar to analysis methods
like Fourier transforms and wavelets and it is particularly useful in exploratory analyses of
data. The principal behind EMD is to split an original time series into a set of smooth curves
or intrinsic mode functions. In the case of fault diagnosis it is typically used to decompose a
vibration signal into components used to train classiﬁers, usually with high accuracy. However
EMD is known to be sensitive to noise as well as requiring a manual selection of parameters
[24] to support its exploratory nature. Zerocross Density Decomposition (ZCD) is a more
recently developed technique [25] which is based on the concept of zero-crossings and is
computationally more efﬁcient than EMD. However EMD is more effective than DD in terms
of accuracy and robustness when dealing with non-stationary signals [26]. Our algorithm does
not split a time series into constituents as EMD or ZCD do and our method is less sensitive to
noise because we use the Lomb-Scargle periodogram [13] to calculate periodicity, an algorithm
which tolerates irregular sampling and missing data.
Algorithm 1 demonstrates the method to compute periodicity intensity. We assume
we already know the optimal window size m, stride length l and the frequency Fo that we
have identiﬁed and are interested in. In this case studies in this paper Fo can either be
circadian (24-hour) or weekly periodicity. Xw is the windowed input data and Sf is the
periodogram computed with Fast Fourier Transform. IntensityFunc computes intensity by

5 of 15
taking the periodogram of a windowed/local time series data and one focused frequency,
Fo. We aggregate energy carried by all close frequencies that are around Fo in case of energy
leakage.
Algorithm 1: Compute Periodicity Intensity
Input
:A time series data xn ∈X Where n = 1, 2, 3 . . . N with N data points. Optimal
window size m and stride length l. Fo ∈{ 1
24h,
1
168h}
Output:A time series data yt ∈Y where t = 1, 2, 3, . . . ⌊N−m+1
l
⌋.
1 for t ←0 to ⌊N−m+1
l
⌋do
2
Xw = xk×l . . . xk×l+m
3
Sf = FFT (Xw)
4
yt = IntensityFunc (Fo, Sf ) where
5
In this work IntensityFunc = ∑f ∈ˆFo Sf where ˆFo is the close neighbours of Fo in
terms of frequency satisfying | 1
Fo −1
ˆFo| < 0.01.
6
IntensityFunc can also be the same form as deﬁned in [10]
7 end for
2.2. Use Cases for Calculating Periodicity Intensity
2.2.1. Periodicity Intensity in Sensor Data from the Homes of Older Adults
The NEX project [27] developed an integrated IoT system to offer unobtrusive health
and wellness monitoring to support older adults living independently in their homes. This
involved the use of ambient sensors non-intrusively placed around the home to detect various
domestic, in-home activities. The resulting time series data gathered from each sensor can be
combined and analysed to create a model of an individual’s normal daily patterns of activity.
During the ﬁrst half of 2022, twenty-four healthy older adults aged 60 years or older and
living independently at home participated in a trial of the NEX project. The gender proﬁle
was predominantly female (81% n=21) with a total population mean age of 73.2 years. The
majority of participants were independent and high functioning with only 8% (n=2) reporting
difﬁculties in completing activities of daily living (ADLS)[28] such as dressing etc. and only 4%
(n=1) reporting difﬁculties in completing more complex tasks deﬁned as instrumental activities
of daily living (IADLS) [29] such as shopping for groceries etc.
A range of in-home sensors were installed in each participant’s home including (1) contact
sensors on the doors of cupboards or drawers which were used for kitchen crockery, cutlery,
delph, food staples and pots, (2) contact sensors on the fridge door and (3) electrical plug
sensors on the kettle, microwave and toaster. There were also contact sensors on wardrobe
door(s) and on drawer(s) in the bedroom, a 6-in-1 environmental sensor for temperature,
humidity, light and presence in the bathroom and contact sensors on the front door, the patio
door or the back door. Collectively, data from these sensors capture the purposeful actions
of the participants, i.e. they indicate a deliberate action thus the opening or closing of doors,
the movement of a person and the switching on or off of electrical devices. Sensor data was
gathered from the in-home sensors from the 24 participants’ homes over periods varying from
6 weeks to 6 months each [27].
The importance of the 24h circadian rhythm and the conformance that each of the NEX
project participants has to that 24-hour rhythm, can be shown by computing the strength of
24-hour periodicity over all data from multiple sensor devices in the home. The fusion of
multiple data streams from multiple sensors captures the activities of daily living including
food preparation and eating, self-grooming, cleaning, relaxing, and others. Periodicity intensity
emphasises regularly and the regular recurrence of such activities in the home.

6 of 15
Periodicity intensity visualisations were presented to participants in the NEX project as a
visualisation of their long-term behaviour and changes and the regularity of those trends over
time. A periodicity intensity graph is a continuous timeline where high values indicate periods
of regular behaviour as detected by the in-home sensors, and low values indicate periods of
irregular activities. Such irregular activities are indicators of changes in the regular habits
and can point to changes in their sleep patterns (sleep onset, duration, waking during the
night, napping during the day), in their movement into and out of, as well as around the home
(awake at night, sleeping during the day, staying in the home longer or shorter than normal),
in self-grooming (using the restroom at irregular times) and in eating (snacking during the day
or during the night as opposed to having regular meals).
For the NEX trial we used fused the data gathered from sensors in the homes of participants
and computed a single overall periodicity intensity timeline for each participant and we present
some of these in the Results section of this paper.
2.2.2. Periodicity Intensity in Student Learning Habits
Many Universities have wellness programs to promote overall health and wellbeing
of their staff and students [30]. Their beneﬁts lead to improved health literacy, healthier
mindsets, healthier relationships with others and positive changes to lifestyles regarding
exercise, nutrition and more. In our University we created and run an elective undergraduate
course on wellness called FLOURISH. This also includes elements of data literacy by showing
students how their own personal data, gathered from devices used to measure their sleep,
exercise, nutrition, etc., can be used for good as part of students themselves monitoring these
wellness factors.
The wellness course was delivered entirely online via the University’s virtual learning
environment (VLE) Loop, a variation of Moodle and was accredited by the University, earning
5 ECTS for students who successfully completed it. For each of the 10 wellness topics, the
personal data that students were required to gather on themselves was not shared with the
course instructor or with the University. However, as part of their participation in the course
and to demonstrate how personal data gathered by the University as part of recording their
online activities could also be used for good, each of the 169 students on the course authorised
us to download their VLE access logs for all their taught courses for the semester. This included
the date, time and the URL of the Loop resource for each time that a student accessed any
resource on the VLE.
At the end of the teaching semester we used the log of all student accesses to all Loop
resources on all their courses and generated a single periodicity intensity graph for each
student covering all online accesses and shared the graph online privately with them. The
resulting graphs provide an insight for each student into which period(s) of the preceding
taught semester their learning habits as exempliﬁed by their access to online resources, were
more structured and regular. This may help them in reﬂecting back on their learning throughout
the semester. Some sample graphs to illustrate this, as well as further insights, are presented in
the Results section of this paper.
2.2.3. Periodicity Intensity in Calf Movements
The regularity of the sleep-wake cycle is important not just for humans but for other
living animals. We investigated the strength of the circadian periodicity of newborn calves
on a commercial farm and how that strength of periodicity changes throughout their ﬁrst 6–8
weeks after birth [31]. Many animals including cattle are behaviourally synchronised with
herds coordinating reactions to external zeitgebers [32] so our interest in this use case is in the
periodicity intensity of the circadian rhythm for the herd as a whole as well as for individual
calves.

7 of 15
We gathered data from an Axivity AX3 wearable accelerometer [33] afﬁxed to a collar
worn on the necks of each of 24 dairy calves from just after their birth. The calves were fed
twice a day, were bedded daily and had human contact during these activities. Feeding times
were at similar times to milking as they were fed whole milk thus their day-to-day activities
would have been very structured and regular. Individual calf movements as detected by the
accelerometers would have varied among calves as they play and interact and explore their
surroundings so despite the regular structure to feeding and sleep, there is scope for a lot of
individual variability among them.
Data from the accelerometers was sampled at 12.5Hz and gathered for up to 8 weeks
for each calf. It was processed in the way described in [34] by pre-processing into signal
vector magnitude (SVM), a time-series independent of sensor orientation and thus invariant
to movement of the collar around the neck. A Butterworth fourth-order band-pass ﬁlter [35]
with frequency in the range 0.5 Hz to 20 Hz was then applied to remove any white noise, and
negative values were converted into absolute values. Movement values used for analysing
periodicity were the aggregated mean of SVM calculated over non-overlapping 60-second
windows.
3. Results
3.1. Results of Periodicity Intensity in the Homes of Older Adults
We ﬁrst examine and discuss the results of periodicity intensity calculation on sensor data
from the homes of older citizens. The output from periodicity detection on data from the NEX
project participants was calculated in real time and made available online. These visualisations
were used in debrieﬁngs with participants by their clinical carers and project researchers and
supported by a short-form informative YouTube video to explain the graphs and to ensure the
participants understood how to interpret them.
Three example outputs are shown in Figure 2 where the values in each graph are nor-
malised to a [0,1] range as actual periodicity intensity values will vary considerably across
participants and each participant is interested in the relative changes in their own graph rather
than in absolute values or in comparison to others. Following experimentation to determine
the best parameters to use, for each of the graphs the frequency for periodicity calculation is
24 hours reﬂecting interest in the circadian rhythm, the window is 7 days thus eliminating
changes between weekends/weekdays and the overlap or stride length is 1 hour making the
computation fast. Each graph represents a periodicity intensity over a 3 month period.

8 of 15
Figure 2. Normalised periodicity intensity from 3 sample ARC trial participants for 3 months duration.
Frequency is 24 hours, window size is 7 days and window shift is 1 hour. X-axis values span 3 months,
y-axis values have been normalised to the range 0 to 1.
The ﬁrst graph in Figure 2 shows a participant with relatively stable and regular lifestyle
and only small variations in periodicity intensity. The gradual rise in periodicity intensity
towards the end of the 3 months shows a slight improvement in lifestyle regularity and there
are no major perturbations throughout the 3 months. This participant is known to have a
healthy, regular and comfortable lifestyle.
In the second graph in Figure 2 we see a participant with much more ups-and-downs
in lifestyle. The increase in lifestyle regularity in the middle of the period corresponds to a
constant presence at home due to catching Covid-19, self-isolating and recovering with regular
behaviour and habits. For this period the volume of sensor activations was much lower than in
the earlier period as the participant was not doing much at home except spending time in bed,
but it is not the number of sensor activations but their timing that contributes to periodicity
intensity. Towards the end of the 3 month monitoring period this participant moved out of the
home to recuperate with family hence the ﬂatlining at the end.
The third graph in Figure 2 shows a participant who also caught COVID-19 during the
early part of the 3 month recording period, and then soon afterwards also moved out of their
home to recuperate with family which was indicated by the ﬂatlining in the graph. The slight
rise in periodicity intensity during the second half of the 3 months indicates family calling to
the home on semi-regular basis to collect mail and check it for security.
The result of this analysis is a form of self-monitoring of the individual but with deeper
insights into overall behaviour and activities. This may be used to promote or sustain long-term
behaviour change as the subject seeks to maintain high levels of rhythmicity in their lives.
3.2. Results of Periodicity Intensity in Student Learning Habits
We now present an in-depth analysis and discussion of the results of applying periodicity
intensity to students’ online learning habits. The periodicity intensity graphs for each student
were made available to them at end of the teaching semester, supported by a short-form
informative YouTube video to explain the graphs and to ensure they understood how to
interpret them. Five sample graphs are shown in Figure 3. In each graph the periodicity
intensity values are normalised to a [0,1] range to smooth out variance across students and to
make each graph equally legible. This is similar to the older adult participants in the previous

9 of 15
study in that each student will be interested in the relative changes in their own graph rather
than in absolute values or in comparison to others. We also added 3 coloured vertical bands to
each graph, red indicating the period of lowest periodicity intensity, green indicating the period
of highest and yellow indicating the period of greatest (steepest) change. The parameters used
in the calculation of the graphs are a frequency of 24 hours, window size is 7 days and window
shift or stride is 3 hours.
Figure 3. Normalised periodicity intensity for a sample of ﬁve student participants. Frequency is 24
hours, window size is 7 days and window shift or stride is 3 hours. Y-axis values have been normalised
to the range 0 to 1.
The ﬁve graphs shown in Figure 3 have different start dates reﬂecting the different times
students started studying and they reﬂect totally different study patterns with the ﬁrst, second,
third and fourth students peaking at different times during the semester in terms of the
structured and regular nature of their online access. The ﬁrst student has her/his peaks earliest
in the semester while the fourth student has her/his peaks last. The graph for the ﬁfth student
shows a student with a gradual increase in regularly of studying throughout the semester with
a burst of regular studying at the end, just before the course examinations.
While individual periodicity intensity graphs are of value for each student we can get
further value from this analysis by time-aligning and stacking the 169 individual student
graphs as shown in Figure 4. For these we set a ﬁxed start and end date/time before stacking

10 of 15
the graphs. Since periodicity calculations are for windows of 7-days, there is a gap of 3.5 days
at the beginning and the end of the graph.
Figure 4. Stacked line chart of cumulative periodicity intensity from all 169 student participants. Y-axis
values have been normalised to the range 0 to 1.
Figure 4 shows the aggregated periodicity intensities for the cohort of 169 students where
the y-axis is a stack of periodicity intensities for each student, each student shown in a different
colour. The top line of the overall graph show the aggregated periodicities from all students
and it reveals three distinct peaks corresponding to the early part of semester as students settle
into University life, the middle of semester as students take advantage of the mid-semester
reading week to catch up on study, and at the end of semester, just before examinations, as
students prepare for those examinations.
As shown by Byron and Wattenberg in [36], stacked line graphs may present an illusion of
peaks and troughs which might be caused by a subset of students rather than the peaks and
troughs appearing across all students. Thus the overall stacked line graph might be artiﬁcially
boosted or deﬂated by peaks or troughs from a small number of students. To assess this,
we divided the students into random sub-groups and plotted a stacked line graph for each
sub-group. Since the stacked line graphs for the sub-groups show the same shape as the stacked
line graph for the whole cohort there are no artiﬁcial boosts or troughs from a sub-group of
students, and the pattern is generalised across the cohort.
We can see from Figure 4 that there is a fault line just before 1st November. The University’s
academic calendar shows this was the date for closing of registrations for the student course
choices. A second interesting fault line appears just before 25th November. The semester’s
teaching period ended on 27th November and the pre-examination study period was between
29th November and 5th December. We can see an increase in the structured nature of VLE
activities from students with their assignment submissions and revision of study materials in
preparation for examinations, and this tails off as each student ﬁnishes their examinations.
The result of this analysis of periodicity intensity is personalised feedback for each student
on their learning habits with deeper insights into the learning behaviour and activities of the
overall student cohort. This has personal beneﬁt for each student as well as beneﬁt for the
University and course directors.
3.3. Results of Periodicity Intensity in Calf Movements
Our ﬁnal in-depth discussion is of the periodicity intensity algorithm applied to accelerom-
eter data from new-born calves. The 24 calves used in the calf movement study had different
dates of birth and their sensor data thus started on different dates. For the oldest calf (sensor
ID 20714) the accelerometer data began on 2nd March at 09:00 and for the youngest calf the

11 of 15
accelerometer data began on 5th April at 10:00. Though start dates varied, all calves in the
herd were contributing accelerometer data by 5th April thus it is from that date onwards that
we obtain a picture of the full herd’s periodicity. Of the 24 calves, 5 are considered as outliers
and did not contribute to the analysis of the overall herd because their collars had fallen off at
some point during the data logging and if reattached it would have created a gap in the data
which would have impacted the calculation of periodicity intensity for a period of more than 2
weeks. The 19 remaining calves were used in the analysis. The graphs of periodicity intensity
for individual calves can be seen in Figure 5 and their x-axes are time-aligned. For these the
periodicity frequency was set to 24 hours, the window size was 7 days and the stride length or
shift of the time-lagged overlapping windows was 15 minutes.
Figure 5. Line graphs of calf periodicity intensities for each of 24 calves. Frequency is 24 hours, window
size is 7 days and window shift is 15 minutes. The vertical green lines indicates the dates of disbudding.
Figure 5 shows the 24 individual periodicity intensity graphs and the ﬁrst 4 in the left
column and the 3rd in the right column were discarded for reasons mentioned earlier. The
vertical green lines in the graph indicate the dates of disbudding, a process of surgical removal
of horn buds before the calves grow and cause a danger to other calves and to the farmer [37].
Looking across the set of 19 graphs it is difﬁcult to discern any coordinated pattern across
the herd. When we generate a stacked graph of the time-aligned periodicity intensities in the
same way as was done for the student VLE accesses, we get the graph shown in Figure 6, where
each colour represents periodicity intensity for a different calf.

12 of 15
Figure 6. Stacked line chart of cumulative calf periodicity intensity from 19 of the 24 calves, from [31].
Y-axis values have been normalised to the range 0 to 1.
The staked line graph of periodicity intensities shows a peak at around the beginning
of May followed by a clear drop in 24h periodicity intensity across the herd, indicating a
synchronous dis-improvement in herd welfare. This reached its low point after about 1 week,
around 9 May and was followed by a return to better herd welfare, although not as high at
around 2 May, Because of the 7-day windowing in our calculations the drop-off, which reached
its minimum point around 9 May, was most likely caused by a stressful or traumatic event at
around 2 May which is the time window during which the disbudding process took place.
As with the use case of student learning habits from a VLE, we divided the calves into
random sub-groups and plotted a stacked line graph for each sub-group. These show the same
shape as the stacked line graph for the whole herd thus there is no artiﬁcial boosts or troughs
from a sub-group of calves, and the pattern is generalised across the herd.
The result of this analysis of periodicity intensity is similar to that from the analysis of
student accesses to their VLE. We have individual feedback on a wellbeing indicator for each
calf based on their movements with deeper insights into the wellbeing of the overall herd and
this is of interest to the farmer.
4. Discussion
This paper presents three applications of calculating periodicity intensity throughout a
time series on three very different real world use cases. In each case we gain deeper insights
into the data than would have been revealed without periodicity analysis. These powerful
insights into the underling time series data can be obtained from any data source that has
underlying periodicity as an inherent feature.
The value of this form of data analysis is that it is unsupervised, requires no training data
and thus it is generalisable. This makes the value of the technique in terms of economic impact
quite attractive as it can be applied to any use case where there is longitudinal time series data
to be analysed in order to detect gradual shifts or changes over time.
In terms of implementation, the choice of values for the three parameters are not difﬁcult
to determine. The frequency of the recurring pattern to be investigated, Fo, is often 24 hours
but not always so and the use case usually already knows what this should be. The size of
the window in which the periodicity is calculated m is also usually known in advance. For
example if Fo is 24 hours then setting m to 7 days nulliﬁes any effects of weekend/weekday
behaviour transitions in the underlying data. The overlap between windows or stride length l is

13 of 15
inﬂuenced by the demands of the use case and the amount of computation resources available
and not any algorithmic limitation. The technique is agile in terms of the number and even
the type of time series data used, and it is fast to compute. Because we use the Lomb-Scargle
algorithm [13] to calculate periodicity in windows it handles irregularly sampled data such as
our student accesses to their VLE, as well as moderate amounts of missing data, though not
completely missing data as in those calves who’s collars fell off but were replaced quickly in
our third use case. Finally, the algorithm for calculating periodicity intensity is mathematically
deterministic, producing the same output from the same input repeatedly.
Periodicity intensity is a complex metric to fully comprehend because it is novel and
non-conventional. In the two of our use cases which involved human participants – in-home
sensors in the homes of older adults and students accessing their VLE – we needed the support
of an animated helper video to describe what the periodicity intensity was because our users
were healthcare professionals and older adults.
For future work we will concentrate on ways to make the metric more intuitively under-
standable by mapping changes in a periodicity intensity graph back to the underlying data
thus showing exactly what data has caused changes in periodicity intensity and this would
be useful in those use cases involving human subjects. We will also explore the robustness
of the algorithm as a function of data quality by introducing noise to see how a decrease
in data quality impacts the generated output. Finally we will focus the implementation of
the Lomb-Scargle algorithm to determine periodicity at the 24 hour frequency only as our
experience has been that this frequency setting is the one that most use cases are interested in.
Author Contributions: Conceptualization, A.S. and F.H.; methodology, A.S. and F.H.; software, F.H.;
validation, A.S. and F.H.; formal analysis, A.S. and F.H.; investigation, A.S. and F.H.; data curation, A.S.;
writing—original draft preparation, A.S.; writing—review and editing, A.S and F.H.. All authors have
read and agreed to the published version of the manuscript.
Funding: This research was funded by Science Foundation Ireland grant number SFI/12/RC/2289_P2,
cofunded by the European Regional Development Fund and by the Disruptive Technologies Innovation
Fund administered by Enterprise Ireland, project grant number DT-2018-0258 and by a UCD Wellcome
Institutional Strategic Support Fund which was ﬁnanced jointly by University College Dublin and the
SFI-HRB-Wellcome Biomedical Research Partnership (ref 204844/Z/16/Z).
Institutional Review Board Statement: The study was conducted in accordance with the Declaration of
Helsinki, and ethical approvals for (1) the study involving sensor data from the homes of older adults was
obtained from the DCU Research Ethics Committee (DCUREC202221) and (2) the study involving log
data from student access to an online VLE was approved by DCU’s Data Protection Unit 07042021-DPO
with ethics approval was given by the School of Computing Research Ethics Committee. As ethical
approval for (2) was deemed to be notiﬁcation-only, the institutional policy is that only School-level ethics
approval is needed. The animal study protocol for the study involving sensor data from movement and
behaviour of the herd of cattle were collected under an ethical exemption from UCD Animal Research
Ethics Committee, approval number AREC-E-19-46-McAloon.
Informed Consent Statement: Informed consent was obtained from all human subjects involved in the
studies.
Data Availability Statement: The data presented in the study involving sensor data from the homes of
older adults are openly available in FigShare at https://doi.org/10.6084/m9.ﬁgshare.21415836.v2. The
data presented in the study involving student access to an online VLE are openly available in Figshare at
https://doi.org/10.6084/m9.ﬁgshare.20288763.v2. The data presented in the study involving movement
and behaviour of a herd of cattle are openly available in Figshare at https://doi.org/10.6084/m9.ﬁgshare.
20039486.v1.

14 of 15
Conﬂicts of Interest: The authors declare no conﬂict of interest. The funders had no role in the design of
the study; in the collection, analyses, or interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript; or in the
decision to publish the results.
Abbreviations
The following abbreviations are used in this manuscript:
ADL
Activity of daily living
ECTS
European credit transfer and accumulation system
IADL
Instrumental activity of daily living
RP
Recurrence plots
SVM
Signal vector magnitude
VLE
Virtual learning environment
EMD
Empirical Mode Decomposition
ZCR
Zero crossing rate
ZCD
Zerocross Density Decomposition
References
1.
Li, J.; Zhang, J.; Bah, M.J.; Wang, J.; Zhu, Y.; Yang, G.; Li, L.; Zhang, K. An Auto-Encoder with Genetic Algorithm for High Dimensional
Data: Towards Accurate and Interpretable Outlier Detection. Algorithms 2022, 15. https://doi.org/10.3390/a15110429.
2.
Fisher, D.N.; Pruitt, J.N. Insights from the study of complex systems for the ecology and evolution of animal populations. Current
Zoology 2019, 66, 1–14. https://doi.org/10.1093/cz/zoz016.
3.
Kuhlman, S.J.; Craig, L.M.; Duffy, J.F. Introduction to chronobiology. Cold Spring Harbor Perspectives in Biology 2018, 10, a033613.
4.
Cohen, M. Wellness and the thermodynamics of a healthy lifestyle. Asia-Paciﬁc Journal of Health, Sport and Physical Education 2010,
1, 5–12.
5.
Farhud, D.; Aryan, Z. Circadian rhythm, lifestyle and health: a narrative review. Iranian journal of public health 2018, 47, 1068.
6.
Marwan, N.; Romano, M.C.; Thiel, M.; Kurths, J. Recurrence plots for the analysis of complex systems.
Physics reports 2007,
438, 237–329.
7.
Nath, A.G.; Udmale, S.S.; Raghuwanshi, D.; Singh, S.K. Improved Structural Rotor Fault Diagnosis Using Multi-Sensor Fuzzy
Recurrence Plots and Classiﬁer Fusion. IEEE Sensors Journal 2021, 21, 21705–21717. https://doi.org/10.1109/JSEN.2021.3079366.
8.
Li, X.; Li, T.; Wang, Y. GW-DC: A Deep Clustering Model Leveraging Two-Dimensional Image Transformation and Enhancement.
Algorithms 2021, 14. https://doi.org/10.3390/a14120349.
9.
Buman, M.P.; Hu, F.; Newman, E.; Smeaton, A.F.; Epstein, D.R. Behavioral periodicity detection from 24 h wrist accelerometry and
associations with cardiometabolic risk and health-related quality of life. BioMed Research International 2016, 2016, 485–506.
10.
Hu, F.; Smeaton, A.F. Periodicity intensity for indicating behaviour shifts from lifelog data.
In Proceedings of the 2016 IEEE
International Conference on Bioinformatics and Biomedicine (BIBM). IEEE, 2016, pp. 970–977.
11.
Chegini, S.N.; Manjili, M.J.H.; Bagheri, A. New fault diagnosis approaches for detecting the bearing slight degradation. Meccanica
2020, 55, 261–286.
12.
Bartlett, M.S. Periodogram analysis and continuous spectra. Biometrika 1950, 37, 1–16.
13.
VanderPlas, J.T. Understanding the Lomb–Scargle Periodogram. The Astrophysical Journal Supplement Series 2018, 236, 16. https:
//doi.org/10.3847/1538-4365/aab766.
14.
Azar, Y.; Fiat, A.; Karlin, A.; McSherry, F.; Saia, J. Spectral Analysis of Data. In Proceedings of the Proceedings of the Thirty-Third
Annual ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing; Association for Computing Machinery: New York, NY, USA, 2001; STOC ’01, p.
619–626. https://doi.org/10.1145/380752.380859.
15.
Montaruli, A.; Castelli, L.; Mulè, A.; Scurati, R.; Esposito, F.; Galasso, L.; Roveda, E. Biological rhythm and chronotype: new
perspectives in health. Biomolecules 2021, 11, 487.
16.
Ho, Q.T.; Phan, D.V.; Ou, Y.Y.; et al. Using word embedding technique to efﬁciently represent protein sequences for identifying
substrate speciﬁcities of transporters. Analytical biochemistry 2019, 577, 73–81.
17.
Rhif, M.; Ben Abbes, A.; Farah, I.R.; Martínez, B.; Sang, Y. Wavelet transform application for/in non-stationary time-series analysis: a
review. Applied Sciences 2019, 9, 1345.
18.
Chaovalit, P.; Gangopadhyay, A.; Karabatis, G.; Chen, Z. Discrete Wavelet Transform-Based Time Series Analysis and Mining. ACM
Comput. Surv. 2011, 43. https://doi.org/10.1145/1883612.1883613.
19.
Shukla, S.; Mishra, S.; Singh, B. Empirical-mode decomposition with Hilbert transform for power-quality assessment. IEEE transactions
on power delivery 2009, 24, 2159–2165.

15 of 15
20.
Lartillot, O.; Toiviainen, P. A Matlab toolbox for musical feature extraction from audio. In Proceedings of the International conference
on digital audio effects. Bordeaux, 2007, Vol. 237, p. 244.
21.
Hong, Y.; Lee, Y.J. A general approach to testing volatility models in time series. Journal of Management Science and Engineering 2017,
2, 1–33.
22.
Abayomi-Alli, O.O.; Sidekerskien˙e, T.; Damaševiˇcius, R.; Siłka, J.; Połap, D. Empirical Mode Decomposition Based Data Augmentation
for Time Series Prediction Using NARX Network. In Proceedings of the Artiﬁcial Intelligence and Soft Computing; Rutkowski, L.;
Scherer, R.; Korytkowski, M.; Pedrycz, W.; Tadeusiewicz, R.; Zurada, J.M., Eds.; Springer International Publishing: Cham, 2020; pp.
702–711.
23.
Altaf, M.; Akram, T.; Khan, M.A.; Iqbal, M.; Ch, M.M.I.; Hsu, C.H. A New Statistical Features Based Approach for Bearing Fault
Diagnosis Using Vibration Signals. Sensors 2022, 22. https://doi.org/10.3390/s22052012.
24.
Cohen, M.X. Analyzing neural time series data: theory and practice; MIT Press, 2014.
25.
Sidekerskien˙e, T.; Damaševiˇcius, R.; Wo´zniak, M., Zerocross Density Decomposition: A Novel Signal Decomposition Method. In Data
Science: New Issues, Challenges and Applications; Dzemyda, G.; Bernataviˇcien˙e, J.; Kacprzyk, J., Eds.; Springer International Publishing:
Cham, 2020; pp. 235–252. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-39250-5_13.
26.
Uzuno˘glu, C.P. A Comparative study of empirical and variational mode decomposition on high voltage discharges. Electrica 2018,
18, 72–77.
27.
Timon, C.M.; Heffernan, E.; Kilcullen, S.M.; Lee, H.; Hopper, L.; Quinn, J.; McDonald, D.; Gallagher, P.; Smeaton, A.F.; Moran, K.;
et al. Development of an Internet of Things Technology Platform (the NEX System) to Support Older Adults to Live Independently:
Protocol for a Development and Usability Study. JMIR Res Protoc 2022, 11, e35277. https://doi.org/10.2196/35277.
28.
Katz, S.; Ford, A.B.; Moskowitz, R.W.; Jackson, B.A.; Jaffe, M.W. Studies of illness in the aged: the index of ADL: a standardized
measure of biological and psychosocial function. Journal of the American Medical Association 1963, 185, 914–919.
29.
Lawton, M. Instrumental Activities of Daily Living (IADL) Scale. Psychopharmacol Bull 1988, 24, 785–787.
30.
Baik, C.; Larcombe, W.; Brooker, A. How universities can enhance student mental wellbeing: The student perspective. Higher
Education Research & Development 2019, 38, 674–687.
31.
Rhodes, V.; Maguire, M.; Shetty, M.; McAloon, C.; Smeaton, A.F. Periodicity Intensity of the 24 h Circadian Rhythm in Newborn
Calves Show Indicators of Herd Welfare. Sensors 2022, 22, 5843.
32.
Conradt, L.; Roper, T.J. Group decision-making in animals. Nature 2003, 421, 155–158.
33.
De Craemer, M.; Verbestel, V. Comparison of Outcomes Derived from the ActiGraph GT3X+ and the Axivity AX3 Accelerometer to
Objectively Measure 24-Hour Movement Behaviors in Adults: A Cross-Sectional Study. International Journal of Environmental Research
and Public Health 2021, 19, 271.
34.
Riaboff, L.; Aubin, S.; Bedere, N.; Couvreur, S.; Madouasse, A.; Goumand, E.; Chauvin, A.; Plantier, G. Evaluation of pre-processing
methods for the prediction of cattle behaviour from accelerometer data. Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 2019, 165, 104961.
35.
Fridolfsson, J.; Börjesson, M.; Buck, C.; Ekblom, Ö.; Ekblom-Bak, E.; Hunsberger, M.; Lissner, L.; Arvidsson, D. Effects of frequency
ﬁltering on intensity and noise in accelerometer-based physical activity measurements. Sensors 2019, 19, 2186.
36.
Byron, L.; Wattenberg, M. Stacked graphs–geometry & aesthetics. IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics 2008,
14, 1245–1252.
37.
Espinoza, C.; Lomax, S.; Windsor, P. The effect of topical anaesthesia on the cortisol responses of calves undergoing dehorning.
Animals 2020, 10, 312.

